US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
came to the region to sell a ceasefire
plan unveiled by the president and
endorsed by the UN Security Council Joe
Biden says it was an Israeli proposal
but there were conflicting narratives
Israel has maintained its goal is to
destroy Hamas and Hamas wants a
permanent ceasefire and the withdrawal
of Israeli troops from Gaza well today
blinkin has blamed Hamas for the impass
he says the group's response to the plan
last night came with amendments and that
some of them are work
some of them are not he was addressing a
press conference along with the prime
minister of Qatar which has been a key
mediator between Hamas and Israel prime
minister Muhammad bin Abdul ramman Alani
said a permanent ceasefire is the only
viable solution for
Gaza Hamas has proposed numerous changes
to the proposal that was on the table we
discussed those changes last night with
Egyptian colleagues and today with the
Prime Minister some of the changes are
workable
some are
not we have reached a very dire point
whereby it is imperative to reach
permanent solution rather than temporary
measures this was part of our discussion
whereby we are all seeking permanent
solution to bring back peace and
security to Gaza Strip as well as West
Bank let alone the people
of the
region well Hamas and Palestinian
Islamic Jihad sent their response to the
US backed proposal for a ceas Fran Gaza
to the mediators on Tuesday they sent
their reply to the Qatari and Egyptian
mediators on Tuesday night and while the
exact wording wasn't disclosed they said
the plan is quote responsible and
positive in a joint statement they said
the response prioritizes the interest of
our Palestinian people and the necessity
of completely stopping the ongoing
aggression against Gaza and Israel
withdrawal from the entire Gaza Strip
the Palestinian delegation expressed its
Readiness to deal positively to reach an
agreement to end this war against Our
People based on a sense of national
responsibility but they also proposed
amendments to the overall proposal they
those changes include Israeli troops
pulling out immediately from the Rafa
border crossing and the Philadelphia
Corridor which runs along the border
with
Egypt well we are Live in Central Gaza
the Jordanian Capital Aman but first
let's head to the White House and speak
to kimle halut there uh and uh kimy give
us some context for this tell us what
was in that ceasefire
proposal the ceasefire proposal that was
laid out back in May of the 31st
certainly laid out uh various stages
that the US president hoped would be
amenable to Hamas of course we now know
that there there are changes that Hamas
is looking for some that the President
says are workable some that the
secretary of state says also are not
workable and so uh this is something
that the White House is now trying to
work through but as we know the main
goal in all of this is to try and end
the conflict something that has been an
ongoing Challenge and the other main
goal in all of this is to ease the
suffering of the Palestinian people as
we know there are now 37,000
casualties and rising and uh to ease the
suffering in terms of not only ending
the fighting but also to get
humanitarian Aid in as we know this is a
humanitarian crisis so uh in terms of
The Proposal what we know is that there
are three stages uh one to end the
fighting one to end the bring out the
withdrawal of Israeli troops given the
fact that this is Israel's war on Gaza
and also to get that humanitarian Aid in
in the various increments and so uh this
is what the plan lays out and uh in
terms of this proposal uh what we know
from the US president is that each step
and each increment is one that builds
upon in terms of trying to get to an
ultimate solution of ultimately building
on something lasting and enduring in the
eyes of the white house uh kimly um many
thanks for that kimle haut live at the
White House in Washington DC okay for
more on this story let's go to hamda
salut who's joining us from the
Jordanian Capital Aman uh hamda well the
Biden Administration has very clearly
repeatedly blamed Hamas for derailing
any progress when it comes to a
potential ceasefire what is Israel's
position on
it look from the get-go not just in this
round of negotiations but in all
previous ones the Israelis have pointed
the finger at Hamas saying that they
have reasonable and quote delusional
demands in this latest round of talks
Israeli officials have said that the
Hames proposal falls short of what
exactly Israel is looking for
additionally we have to remember that
even if all the captives were released
Israel has still said that the war would
continue no matter how long a pause in
the fighting would be so that means that
they're saying until all of those goals
of the war are achieved and remember
there are three the first is to release
all of the remaining Israeli captives to
ensure that Gaza no longer poses a
threat to Israel and the complete
destruction of Hamas both politically
and militarily and Israel is saying
until all of those goals are achieved
the war is not going to end so Israel
again pointing the finger at Hamas
saying that they are unwilling to meet
Israel's demands again saying they're
unrealistic all right Hamas life first
in the Jordanian Capital am
man let's head to Central Gaza and speak
to TK Abu who's outside the AL AXA
Hospital in De Al Bala and TK there has
been a fustrating lack of progress I
think that's the best way of putting it
in terms of reaching a conclusion to
these ceasefire hopes and those hopes
matter most where you
are yeah that's right uh we generally
right now following all the latest
regarding the uh ceasefire deal that has
been packed by the United States and
present it for both for both Hamas and
Israel in order to accept but what we do
hear from Palestinians is that they have
a great sense of cous optimism it means
that they do not want to feel ultimate
optimism as uh multiple previous times
where these kinds of negotiations have
come and hit a dead end but in contrast
they are trying to follow all the latest
developments they'd like to say that
they are feeling the mounting amican
pressure and Regional pressure on both
Hamas and Israel in order to push deeper
and to accept the deal that has been
brought to the table that would
guarantee an end for the fighting but
Hamas has presented some sort of
Amendment for the deal represented and
stressed on the fact that the Israeli
Army must completely withdraw from Gaza
alongside they must also withdraw from
Philadelphia Corridor for Palestinians
any deal that cannot really guarantee
the return of the Palestinians to the
north of the trip to where from where
they were displaced would be meaningless
and even baselessly due to their ongoing
hardships and challenges resulted after
that internal displacement that took
place after Hamas October the 7th attack
on the Israeli communities and from the
Israeli side they insist on going with
the option of renewing the war after the
end of that deal saying that they are so
Keen to militarily and politically
dismantle Hamas alongside with their
ongoing and growing pressure that they
would like to make sure that Gaza won't
be any more representing a threat for
Israel so there are still big gaps
between both parts but Palestinians
believe that there are still more
ongoing efforts being made by Regional
mediators including Qatar and Egypt to
narrow the gaps of this agreement but
the Grim reality for Palestinians as we
have been hearing from them they want
only a ceasefire that can help them to
go back to the north of this trip get
AIDS and at the same time have a kind of
mitigation for aggravating humanitarian
crisis that day by day is getting much
more worse in light of the Israeli full
tight cloer of all Crossing Borders and
the prevention of the flow of AIDS into
their territory which had posed more
significant threats on the lives of
Palestinians as the levels of
malnutrition are increasing in
particular in the northern part of Gaza
and families here are depending on all
kinds of commercial products that are
affordable in the Palestinian market so
ceasefire now is what Palestinians are a
gently needing in order to generally uh
witness a sense of calm on the ground
Amed the Israeli ongoing and unrelenting
military attacks across the strip Neeve
all right tck many thanks as always TK
abuo outside the AL Ox Hospital in darab
Bal that's in central Gaza thank you
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from aler